
               Leisure Suit Larry 6: Shape Up or Slip Out!


Thanks a lot for buying our game!  We appreciate your business and
hope you have lots of laughs playing it!

But before you barge in and start flailing away at all those beautiful
babes, take a moment to scan through this file.  After you do, read the
Larry 6 leaflet in the box.  We promise you'll learn something!


This file covers the following topics:
      1.  MINIMUM HARDWARE
      2.  INSTALLING UNDER DOS
      3.  INSTALLING UNDER WINDOWS
      4.  TO WINDOWS OR NOT TO WINDOWS?
      5.  BAD DIGITAL SOUND EFFECTS
      6.  THE RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON
      7.  GRAVIS ULTRASOUND CARD
      8.  MICROSOFT SOUND SYSTEM
      9.  FOR EXPERTS ONLY!  (DELETING UNNECESSARY FILES)



                          1.  MINIMUM HARDWARE

   286/16mhz MS-DOS compatible (386/16 recommended)
   VGA card and monitor
   Microsoft-compatible mouse
   10.5 megs of free hard disk space
   586,500 bytes of free low memory, if no sound card

The more memory you free up, the better the game runs!  If you're having
problems, let the DOS INSTALL program create a boot disk for you.  Signs
of low memory or overtaxed hardware include slow animation and/or sound
breakups.

Some sound cards require additional free low memory, if you're in doubt,
give us more memory!  Minimum memory requirements for some cards:
   597,000 bytes for SoundBlaster
   599,999 bytes for Pro Audio Spectrum card

Performance improvers:
   faster CPU (486/25 or better)
   more low memory (630,000 bytes is nice)
   more extended or expanded memory (8 megs is plenty)
   a music card
   a DAC card for sampled audio



                        2.  INSTALLING UNDER DOS

Place Disk #1 in your disk drive, change to that drive and type INSTALL.
Follow the menus to choose your display, music device, sound effects
device, memory setup, and where to write the game files.

If you later change hardware or wish to change the game settings, return
to that directory and run INSTALL again.  There's no need to re-install
the game from the original floppies unless you delete a file or do
something equally disastrous.



                      3.  INSTALLING UNDER WINDOWS

Larry 6 runs only in Windows' Enhanced Mode.  It will not run in Standard
mode.  To run in Windows, you must install under Windows.  (The DOS
version will NOT run in a Windows DOS shell.)

Start Windows, turn off any screen savers you may have running, then in
Program Manager, select File | Run.  Enter "A:\SETUP" at the prompt.
Setup will copy the disks, then ask if you want BASE level or EXTENDED
level sound.

     WINDOWS SOUND

Choose BASE level sound for sound cards like SoundBlaster, ProAudio,
Adlib, or any FM Yamaha 3812-type card.

Choose EXTENDED level sound for cards like the LAPC-I, MT-32, SCC-1,
Sound Canvas, Turtle Beach MultiSound, or any General MIDI device.

To hear sound from your sound card, you must configure it to work under
Windows.  If you haven't, you may need to add drivers and/or change your
"Midi mapping."  Consult your Windows manual, the sound card's manuals,
and anyone you know who got their card to work!

     MINIMUM WINDOWS HARDWARE

You already know this, but if you want to run Windows, you need more than
the minimum machine we describe above.  You can't run Enhanced Mode with
a 286, so a 386 is required.  And you can't do anything if you have less
than 2 megs of memory.



                    4.  TO WINDOWS OR NOT TO WINDOWS?

Try Windows first if you want, but understand there are trade-offs.  Read
the Larry 6 leaflet that came with your game!

     256-COLOR MODE ONLY!

LARRY 6 runs only in 256-color mode.  If you are in a high-color mode, you
must change before running the program.  To do this: in Program Manager,
select the Windows Setup icon, then select OPTIONS.  Change DISPLAY to
use 256-colors, then select "Restart Windows."



                      5.  BAD DIGITAL SOUND EFFECTS

If you are playing from DOS, try adding this line to the file
"RESOURCE.CFG":
     audioSize = 8k
Experiment with the size.  Try 12k, or even 16k, to see what works best.
Making this larger decreases the amount of memory available to the game.
If you increase audioSize, you may need to free up more low memory to
play the game.  (This does not apply to the Windows version.)

If you still have problems in DOS (or you have problems running under
Windows), your hard disk could be fragmented.  Delete the game from your
hard disk, use a utility program to defragment and compact your drive,
then reinstall the game.



                       6.  THE RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON

Click it to cycle through the available cursors.  But, if there is text
on the screen, clicking it will skip through conversations or multiple
text messages.  Be careful!  You may miss crucial dialogue, information
or clues.



                       7.  GRAVIS ULTRASOUND CARD

If you have a GUS card and run the game from DOS, you may have better
results by using a special TSR driver co-developed by Gravis and
Sierra.  It is in your LSL6 directory in a self-extracting archive
named GUSDRV.COM.  Run it by typing GUSDRV in the LSL6 directory. 
Follow the instructions given in READIT.



                       8.  MICROSOFT SOUND SYSTEM

Ironically enough, MicroSoft's Sound System doesn't work very well under
Windows.  If you have the MSS card, we recommend playing Larry 6 under
DOS (which MicroSoft also wrote!).



           9.  FOR EXPERTS ONLY!  (DELETING UNNECESSARY FILES)

If you don't have DAC audio, you may delete the file "RESOURCE.SFX" to
free up several megs of hard disk space.  If you later buy a DAC, you
won't hear any sound effects until you reinstall the game from your
original floppy disks.

Once you have the game up and running correctly, you may delete any
unused drivers to free up a little hard disk space.  But before you do,
be sure you have good sound and video!  Remember:  if you later change
your hardware setup, you'll have to reinstall the game from your
original disks.  CONSIDER YOURSELF WARNED!


      VIDEO DRIVERS:
   VGA320.DRV     Provides beautiful 256-color VGA graphics.
   VGA320BW.DRV   Provides "beautiful" 256-gray scale VGA graphics.

      MUSIC DRIVERS:
   MT32.DRV       Roland MT-32 and LAPC-1
   ADL.DRV        AdLib and true compatibles
                  (SoundBlaster, Thunderboard, etc)
   SBPRO.DRV      SoundBlaster Pro
   PROAUDIO.DRV   Pro Audio Spectrum
   MICROSOF.DRV   Microsoft Sound System
   GENMIDI.DRV    any card not mentioned above that supports
                  the "General Midi" standard
   GMGUS.DRV      Gravis UltraSound
   GUSDRV.EXE     self-extracting archive containing Gravis TSR
   STD.DRV        plain old PC internal speaker

      DIGITIZED SOUND EFFECTS DRIVERS:
   AUDBLAST.DRV   SoundBlaster
   AUDDISNY.DRV   Disney Sound Source
   AUDMSSYS.DRV   Microsoft Sound System
   AUDPRO.DRV     Pro Audio Spectrum
   AUDPRO16.DRV   Pro Audio Spectrum 16 (16-bit samples)
   AUDPS1.DRV     IBM PS/1
   AUDTHUND.DRV   Thunderboard
   AUDGUS.DRV     Gravis UntraSound
   AUDNONE.DRV    if you haven't yet bought a sound board with a DAC
